**Website Reflection (text-only version)**

I think the coolest thing about making this website was feeling my HTML/CSS skills grow steadily over the course of the project. At the start, because I was new to website programming, it was very much monkey see, monkey do. I wasn’t really sure why everything worked the way it did, but I trusted in the mighty HTML/CSS overlords and did as I was told. Towards the end though, like when I was getting into my stretch goal animating my subtitle to look typed, I realized I was getting to a point where I could start to break down what each line was doing and was better able to customize things.

I feel like I employed visual hierarchy in styling my page sections, using size to draw attention to the header as the dominant element and color/contrasting font to draw attention to my subdominant elements like links or my “handwritten” comments. Due to the fact that my page sections were styled consistently through a sitewide CSS stylesheet, I think there is clear visual rhythm (especially  with the <h1> and <h4> bookends to each page section) as viewers scroll. My website has four HTML scrolling locations on the same page (title page, the bookshelves, the brews, and the underGROUNDS) to make the page look typed out. Given that it’s all on the same page and there’s a sticky nav bar, there are no dead ends on the page. I included several images, including the “business logo,” the typewriter typing the page out, and “pinned” images (which alternate left and right sides) that mark the 3 headers related to what the store has to offer (all with alt text). The site successfully displays locally and publicly (although I learned that my site’s smooth scroll effect only works in Chrome, and not Safari, through testing the public loading capability).

For aspirational criteria, I modified the pinned images in Photoshop to create tacks that matched my webpage, as well as the typewriter to make the image to webpage transition seamless.

I spent a lot of time with responsive design and media queries to make sure my webpage worked on smaller screens. I used the calc() value in my media queries for font-size and height to have the headers avoid breaking into multiple lines with a narrow screen. I also removed my typewriter and side images for small screens, as the typewriter would take up too much vertical room and the side images start to look unintentional/cut off under about 975px. Because of this, for the side images, I actually removed those for mid-sized screens too. I also used a media query to keep my CSS animation of the subtitle to large screens only.

On the note of animated elements, I implemented a few others on my site. I used :hover to draw attention to the links on my website (and used the ::after pseudo-class to create invisible space so the hover animation didn’t throw off the lines when executed).

I utilized Flexbox layout throughout, which was particularly useful in formatting my menu items so that the item and item price had responsive space-between.

Although I can’t claim to be an expert, I attempted to condense my CSS stylesheet as much as possible and added a lot of comments that I could reference when building future websites.

I picked up a couple new useful things when it comes to accessibility knowledge. Beyond checking color contrast, I learned how to test my website with Apple’s built-in screen reader to get a sense for how some of the elements read aloud. I got really excited when I realized I could mimic the borders I had originally written in HTML (ex. | title page | ) using border-left and border-right in CSS, which made the screen reader skip over unnecessarily reading out the “vertical line “ and potentially confusing the listener. I also learned in my reading about typewriter effects for animating the subtitle that CSS can be more accessible than JS, which I hadn’t thought about until I realized that the text is written out in HTML for the CSS method, but not for JS, making it more screen reader friendly (to my understanding). In light of this, I opted for the CSS method. Running my site through the WAVE web accessibility evaluation tool, no errors were detected.

As far as theme goes, I think I was able to keep things clear. I made the main portion of the page sized to the typewriter to have it look as if the content was being typed out, given the bookish theme of the website’s business. I kept a consistent color palette by creating the above-mentioned matching tacks, and by making the background color behind the page a lighter hue of my “edit-pen” red. Although I used a few fonts, I think they all tie into the typewriter theme, either by being a typewriter font or by looking like an editor’s commentary. In choosing the handwriting font to work with the typewriter fonts, I specifically chose “Indie Flower” off of FontSquirrel because of its use of the typewriter style “a” and similar height-to-width ratio of the characters. I felt like the handwritten font as my <em> styling added a playful element to make the business feel more welcoming. I think the overall quirky presentation (the typewriter/page set up, the images pinned to the sides of the page, the edit comments) all work together to depict the business’s unique offerings to attract the target customers: writers and readers looking for an eclectic space.

With regard to feedback, Caela offered some really useful advice. The comment about the credits being too small was a recurring theme, so I made sure to size them up. I was especially excited though, to discover the smooth scroll effect, as I think it played into the typewriter element better than the default jump. Additionally, I made the typewriter slightly shorter in response to Greg’s feedback from workshop and removed the pinned images for mid-screens to address Thomas’s feedback.

Overall, I was pleased with the way I was able to pace myself in this project and take on stretch goals that built on the core of the website.

*Version of this reflection with images is posted to the Issues Queue*
